What is the correct way to wait for
an element to be rendered on DOM after
a placeholder component for example
waiting for the request to be fulfilled?
>> Cool let's answer
that question first and
then we'll talk about our big issue
because it's a bigger deep dive,
so the question was,
what if it's not immediately there?
What if there is a network request?
What if there's an animation?
What if there are something
that has to happen, right?
You have a bunch of options in this case.
Won't to solve my problem now but
you do have a bunch of options.
So, if you do need to wait for something
your best bet is to use something called
Wait for and wait for
we can even do it here
Yeah, we should have that button gone.
Wait for.
So ideally we want something like wait for
the remove item not to be in the document,
all right?
Something along those lines which yeah,
if there was an animation if
I hit the button and then it slowly faded
away and then was removed for the DOM or
something like that, this test would fail
even though spiritually it should pass.
What wait for
does is it basically accepts a failure for
a certain amount of time, and
then if it truly is still there for
some reason,
then the test would actually fail.
I think the timeout by default,
I wanna say it' five seconds, right?
It will keep trying for about five
seconds if it's still there, and
you can change the timeout and
stuff like that.
But it's a way to be,
this is not gonna happen immediately but
it should happen soon-ish.
And sometimes to add just a little
bit of grace to your tests, so
that you're able to kind of get them past
it without super weird implementation
details like, could you do squirrely
things like moving the clock forward and
all sorts of crazy stuff?
Sure, that seems to be a little much.
And then would you be tempted to do
really dark stuff like make your code
perform differently in tests
than in the in reality,
which is why are you even
testing stuff at that point?
Would you likely just delete that test
because you're like, I don't know.
And then go on your weekend,
that's probably the thing you would do.
So wait for it which is again,
returning a promise of you had to do other
stuff beyond that, you can wait for
and then it will basically, all right,
this expectation should pass eventually,
and then we'll move on.
If one wanted to write this themselves,
right,
basically resolve the promise
when you call that function,
you don't throw an error, right?
And then reject the promise
after a certain amount of time.
You could write it yourself, right?
You don't have to cuz it's in the library.
And again, this came from me just writing
the test saying let's remove an item,
do one last little bonus lap, and
then we'll move on to the next topic, and
then I noticed that this test failed.
And I noticed that only when it
came down to adding an item, and
that there was no test isolation cuz
they were both there in this case.
Which is weird because you saw me use
the app and it wasn't there, right?
But if I do, We
saw it in the failing test but this is
still a great way to choose, to see stuff.
All screen.debug does is it console
logs a serialized version of the DOM.
So if one, I'll get it here as well, but
you could see it at any given point.
And if I squint, you can see that I do
in fact have two MacBook Pros in there.
That's why the test passed with iPad Pro
and it failed with a MacBook Pro, right?
So we could say, iPad Pro.
That's not the issue, the two remove
buttons that are now the issue but
some version of that doesn't matter,
I still have an issue I have to deal with.
And we have to work through it.
And so this kind of leads
us into a different issue,
which is that render does in fact,
render a brand new element, right?
The issue is that JavaScript is hard.
Spoiler alert, an implementation detail
of this app is if we kind of go and
look through it, it's that,
all right, let's go.
Let's say index.tsx is
the beginning point.
You can see that I am using the store and
I am using React Redux.
And so
we're re-rendering the component, but
the store in Redux at least
is defined just like,
as part of your code living
outside of your React render tree.
Which is like the feature of Redux,
right, which is this idea that if it
lives outside of it, it's a global
state that everything can hook into.
The context API,
if it was in your component,
would re-render and
you would not have this issue, right?
You state you would not have this issue,
it is only the fact that
enclosure scope this store exists.
Doesn't matter how many times we render or
re-render that component,
this variable is still in memory, right?
And it has two MacBook Pros in it.
And so when we re-render the DOM and
it goes to talk to the Redux store,
it's like, I got you two MacBook Pros.
To which our get selector is
like yeah I'm only looking for
one I blow up if I find two, right?
And we have an issue unique to our test
and this creates a philosophical and
moral quandary for us, not really there's
a right answer, but we're tired or
it's the end of the day or
something along those lines, and
we don't want to think deep thoughts.
We want to just deal with the stuff,
we want to get this feature done.
We didn't wanna write tests to begin with,
but
we're trying not to have an application
that falls apart in this course, so, cool.
So we have a few options,
let's think about this.
We could mock out,
use selector to make it so
that, I don't even like
finishing this sentence, right?
Start mocking out the world in order
to in service of our test, right?
And the more you mock out the further
you are divorced from reality.
And while that can occasionally be fun,
it is probably one of those
things where I said before,
most code bases start falling apart
through a series of relatively
reasonable hacks, shortcuts.
Things that are like, yeah, I got to
get my job done, ain't no big deal.
Over time add up to the point
where nothing works and
you don't trust anything and
you don't wanna update anything.
So stepping everything out or
mocking out like Redux or something
along those lines and try to grab the u
selector hook and do dark things to it.
Probably not great, it would work, but
over time it just makes your test suit,
worthless.
Other things that I
could do are try to hack
at my components in
a way that just tries to
make it more easily to test,
which is not great.
The third thing that I could do
is use this as a really learning
opportunity to realize that
my architecture was bad and
fix that issue and
have a happier code base.
Because my issue right now
is I don't have a great
way at this moment to
separate the idea that Redux
is involved from this component itself,
right?
The idea of the component is
that it immediately wraps
in a provider that got the store
as an import from Clojure scope.
And for my test,
that's how it manifested itself, right?
And when we talk about patterns towards
the end, this is gonna be one I revisit,
which is why I'm kinda
making a big deal of it now.
Which is in a large application,
the chances that I might have to
reuse a component in some way,
like converges on one, right?
It will happen eventually.
And if they're tied to each other, I find
myself having a folder where it's three or
four different versions of the same
piece of UI hooked up to different state
management library parts of the state.
All sorts of weird stuff that you've
probably seen in a code base before and
maybe you've done them occasionally and
felt bad about it but
you didn't know what else to do, right?
And so, when things are tightly coupled,
I end up in weird situations like this.
I'm happy a unit test found it,
because if the unit test did not find it,
I would have found it six months from now.
And this is one of those
things where sample apps,
you'll never find it in a real code base.
Six months from now you will find it and
it will be too late cuz it
will have already had like 17
more things applied on top of it.